# GitHubMastersProject
This GitHub repository contains the code submitted in partial fulfilment of the degree of MEng Computer Engineering from Trinity College Dublin. I wrote all of this code from scratch and it implements a three part novel methodological framework to investigate the neural underpinnings of ambiguity resolution in speech using EEG. The framework consists of three central parts; a novel paradigm, a novel experiment to present the paradigm to participants and a novel EEG analysis pipeline to investigate the neural activity that was elicited by participants' brain during the experiment particuarly focusing on Event Related Potential analysis and Motor Preparation Analysis.

The 'Word2VecSequencesForExperiment' folder contains the code, written purely in Python, to turn the paradigm from a concept into a reality.
The 'MatlabExperiment' folder contains the code, written purely in MATLAB, to present the paradigm to participants using the Psychtoolbox library.
The 'EEGProcessingAndAnalysis' folder contains the code, written purely in MATLAB, to clean, preprocess and analyse the participant EEG data post experiment to determine the underlying neural processes.

Dissertation Abstract:

The human brain is a complex organ with extraordinary capabilities, including speech perception. Speech perception is the process of mapping an acoustic signal to its linguistic properties. Previous research has investigated speech perception on a phonetic level but the process of how semantic meaning is extracted from individual words remains unclear. This dissertation introduces a novel methodological framework to further the research in this area. The framework includes a new paradigm, an electroencephalography (EEG) experiment and new data analysis pipeline to track the formation of semantic meaning during a phenomenon of speech perception called disambiguation. Disambiguation in speech is the process by which the brain determines the intended meaning of an ambiguous word using surrounding linguistic context, akin to a decision-making process. Participants were presented with auditory sequences of ambiguous words and were instructed to make decisions on the meaning of each sequence while their neural activity was recorded using the BioSemi EEG system. The analysis pipeline investigated the neural activity prior to the decision and provided new insights into the neural processes involved in speech perception, disambiguation and decision-making. The analysis has shown promising results, although further participant data is needed to draw definitive conclusions. Nevertheless, the automated, scalable, and easily expandable nature of the paradigm, experiment, and data analysis provides a foundation for future research to build upon.

